he treats you the way he treats everyone
else
and that can be one of the most
devastating things to feel
if you're in love right it can be so
painful to be treated
just like everyone else
so happy to see others fail okay
hey everyone i'm posting this on a
throwaway hope that's okay totally fine
so i have this guy in my class whom i
have feelings for but he's straight as
an arrow and i'm a guy
of course i won't tell him about my
feelings but we are very close friends
and it has become really draining he's
the kind of guy who walks into a room of
strangers and befriends them all within
five minutes
it has become so bad that i'm actively
avoiding school since he
always comes and sits next to me and
recently we had
tests which he bombed thanks to a
blackout and i was really happy about it
i don't really know how to feel about it
but it feels like he's hurting me by
sitting next to me
and i dislike him for it but he doesn't
know about it so i can't blame him and
that's only adding to the frustration i
have towards myself
but i don't want to ruin the friendship
we have so let's try to understand
where does happiness from seeing others
fail come from
okay so where does delight in another
human being's suffering come from
so this is actually turns out to be
somewhat simpler than than you may
expect
okay no it's not envy it's not
insecurity
it's not jealousy what is the root of
all that stuff
who do you want to hurt it's the people
who are you
it's that simple right so if we look at
some of these things like if you look at
like toxicity right like where does
toxicity
in its most fundamental form come from
it comes from like hurt
so like we have this circuit in our
brain
right i don't know exactly what circuit
it is but i'm sure it's there because
it's conserved across the human race
where if you hurt me i want to hurt you
that's how we respond right so like
we've evolved because like
if you look at like you know animals
fighting over territory it's like we're
gonna like if you're gonna cross into
what's mine
i'm gonna repel you and we're gonna
fight we're gonna joust we're gonna
do whatever so human beings have like
this retaliatory mechanism and so like
that was
one thing when we were like animals
fighting over territory but now human
beings
it's changed like what is territory what
you know what is hurt
what are we entitled to what's mine
what's yours
and so what i've what i've seen working
with a lot of people who are like
very angry at like other people so i've
worked with a fair number of in cells at
this point so that i think they fall
kind of in this category
right where a lot of them like they have
a lot of hatred and it's not just in
cells i
work with people who have like strong
political beliefs
and what i tend to find is that like
when someone with strong political
beliefs
has hatred towards something else a
certain amount of it is like
conditioning and
indoctrination and then like a certain
amount of it is like hurt
right and and we'll see this like kind
of all over the place where
generally speaking in my experience
people who delight in the suffering
of others are usually
people who have been hurt themselves
right even if you like look at movies
like if you look at a movie where you
know
there's justice in the end and boy does
it feel good when the hero
beats the bully right and like the
bully's like humiliated
like it feels so good like why do you
think it feels good
universal like why do movies like that
succeed it's because we can empathize
with that character we know what it's
like to be hurt by someone
and we know how good it feels to like
hurt them back
to win sometimes we call this justice
right so like we have a word for that
but i'd say even deeper than that
is like a sense of like you know justice
karma but like if you hurt if i get hurt
by you i want to hurt you and we see
this a lot in relationships too
right like when one partner let's say
like is unfaithful to the other
like to make it even like i want to make
you feel the way that i feel it doesn't
have to be with a lack of faith it can
be like any kinds of other things
if i feel emotionally neglected i'm
gonna like act out
and make you feel bad too so human
beings in general so i choose to believe
this there's certainly people who are
you know a little bit more on the
sociopathic side
conditioning there are all kinds of
other reasons why human beings hate
other human beings
it's not exclusive to this but generally
speaking i'm a psychiatrist and my
i work with a sample size of like one
person at a time so what i've seen
in eighty percent of cases if not more
is that most people who are angry and
feel satisfied
when they see someone else get hurt it's
coming from they themselves being hurt
right because like if you think about it
you know when you see someone get hurt
our usual reaction is like compassion
and empathy
so what gets in the way of our usual
reaction it's us being hurt ourselves
and so how do you what do you do about
this i'd say the first thing is to kind
of acknowledge right that this person
has like hurt you in a lot of ways
and i don't know if you sort of
recognize that and you may have trouble
admitting that someone has hurt you if
they've done it unintentionally
right if the person doesn't know that
they're hurting you you don't want to
blame them for it like it's fair to say
it's not really their fault
but it also still causes damage right
like if i'm like
if i'm walking around and i've got like
you know i'm
i'm trying to figure out what what the
right analogy is but you know i can
cause
inadvertent pain to people and it may
not be my fault
but the pain still exists the hurt still
exists within you
and i'd kind of ask yourself you know
how do you feel when this person walks
into a room and makes tons of friends
what do you feel in that moment
i know it sounds kind of weird but like
really pay attention
because i adventure it's one of a couple
things one is that you wish he would
make friends with you
right you wish that the attention that
other people got that the way that this
person was like
acting so friendly like laughing with
that other person like you want to be
that other person and you blame him
for not letting you be in the other
person's shoes
because you it sounds like you've got
feelings for him like you want to be the
recipient of that
intention like any time you look across
the classroom or whatever
and you see him like laughing with
someone else and like patting him on the
back you're like i want that
i want you to do that with me i want to
be part of that interaction
and so it's it's your yearning for that
and your inability to be a part of that
that probably hurts and then you kind of
like
subconsciously you blame him right
you're kind of like
why don't you do that for me and then
there's a lot of other stuff that kind
of goes into that where like you want to
be a part of that interaction maybe you
envy him in some way right maybe you
were like oh if i was like
that friendly and that awesome if i was
that likable
then people would like me like i'd be
the one who walks into the room and then
everyone would want to be my friend
and if everyone would want to be my
friend maybe someone would be attracted
to me
and then maybe i could be with someone
maybe if i was as friendly and
open as likable as that guy he would
like me
so i think that there's a lot of
different stuff that could be going on
here
and i think at the end of the day you
really have to pay attention if you
feel happy when someone else gets
hurt shot and freud right there's a word
for it
um i this doesn't feel to me quite like
shot and freud but i think there's more
there
more here but i really think a lot about
you know what this
you know what you feel like so this
person says when this person sits down
next to me
um let me find the exact phrase but it
feels like he's hurting me
by sitting next to me so i really try to
understand that i think you've got
you know the beginning of the thread and
i'd follow that throne what's what hurts
by him sitting next to you what hurts
because it could even be something like
you know that
he treats you the way he treats everyone
else
and that can be one of the most
devastating things to feel
if you're in love right it can be so
painful to be treated just like everyone
else
you know be a little bit compassionate
towards yourself be a little bit
understanding towards yourself
and and really pay attention to like
what is the nature of these feelings
bring awareness to them
and as you bring awareness to them
you'll be able to start to process
you'll be like okay that's what it is
that i really do want him to treat me
differently
and then once you realize that that's
where the heart is coming from you can
start
you know working on it go see a
therapist do some journaling go for long
walks
you know maybe talk to people on discord
work with a coach and i think that's
where you gotta you gotta look at
you know are you are you envious of the
people that he gives affection to
are you envious of him do you think that
if you are more like him he would spend
more time with you
and then the third thing is are you
really upset that he does treat you like
everyone else because you don't treat
him like everyone else
because that certainly sounds unfair
right because you're treating him a
certain way in your mind
but he's not treating you the same way
so there's like an imbalance there
and this is where it gets further
complicated because you can't really
blame him for that stuff
if you can't blame him then you feel
stupid and you feel guilty and you feel
like
if i can't blame him i shouldn't feel
this way and so you disregard all of
your feelings instead of like accepting
them and owning them
can this apply to friends too absolutely
doesn't have to be love